>> Richard Feldman: So, when I go over
here, when I'm loading this page.
And I'm loading the free or
the global feed or one of these tags,
that's doing HTTP request.
And while that HTTP request is in flight,
we have some decisions to make about what
we're going to render on the screen.
Likewise, when I refresh the page, at the
very beginning, we have a little bit of
loading here, so you can see a very brief
flash of content as it's coming in there.
So what are we actually going
to do about the possibility that
that loading might take
a little bit of time?
Well, one thing we talked about
earlier was the loading spinner.
So we have that concept of
wait 500 milliseconds and
if we don't have the data loaded by then,
display a spinner.
But we have a separate question
of at what level do we do that.
Do we render as much of the page as we can
and then only show loading spinners for
the parts of the page
that are still loading?
Or do we just block the whole page and
say you know what,
until we get all of our data,
we're not gonna show you anything?
We're just gonna show you
at most a loading is there.
So I used to do it that second way and
I've since come around to the idea that
maybe that's not actually the best choice.
Maybe the better choice is
to load as much as possible,
render as much as possible, and
then just block waiting for
the remaining data to load,
which is what we're doing now.
So when I load this page,
I'm getting two HTTP requests,
which we can see inside home.elm or
page/home.elm.
We could see that right here in the model.
So we have tags and feet.
Those are the two separate
things that we're loading.
And we talked about this status
type earlier that has loading,
loadingSlowly, successfully loaded,
or failed.
And both of those are loaded
at the same time.
So when I visit this page,
it's loading the feed.
And then a separate HTTP
request is loading the tags.
And as soon as it gets one or the other,
it will immediately render it.
So basically, this means that if
the user's on a slow connection
they are getting as much of the screen
as possible as soon as possible.
But that's not necessarily the right
choice for your application.
As I said,
there are different trade offs here.
It may be that what makes the most sense
for your application is to wait for
all the data sources to come back,
because perhaps it doesn't make sense
to show the one without the other.
Depending on your use case, you may want
to actually intentionally block, and
in that case, you would actually
organize this in your data model
perhaps a little bit differently.
Or at least in your view where you would
check to make sure that both of these were
present before continuing on.
Lots of different ways you can do it.
Okay, then we have the final
question of persistence.
So what is actually going
to be shared between pages?
So we have a couple of
different examples of this.
One is we are on this page, and
when I go to different pages,
I wanna keep my session around in memory.
So we talked earlier about having one
single source of truth for the session,
which is ultimately a cache
of what's in local storage,
which in turn is a cache
of what's on the server.
But we do in fact have that cache in our
model, and so we have this notion of
a session, which is data that is
essentially shared between pages.
This is a cache that gets handed
around from page to page, and
if we are logged in,
we have the navigation key.
Which is an implementation detail of
navigation that we're not gonna get into
in this workshop.
And then we have the viewer
if we're logged in.
And that just gets passed
around from page to page, and
the viewer contains among other things,
the authentication token.
So, that prevents us from having to go and
get that from the server or
some local storage each time we
transition from page to page.
But that notion of caching
that session from page to page
can happen in all sorts of different ways.
For example on the package website,
when you go from one page to another,
it's actually caching the search
results from the previous page.
So if I go to package website,
when I go from one link to another,
it's able to cache the search results
that I had previously sourced.
If I go back,
it doesn't need actually go back and
do another HTTP request to
show these search results.
It actually just remembers them and cache
them as it was transitioning from page to
page in this single page application.
So essentially, you can cache whatever
you want from page to page and
you can say, yeah,
we don't need to do another HTTP request.
I'm quite confident that these
are the search results that you want and
the odds of your getting,
missing search results are so
low that I'd rather just
show you them faster.
But then once again,
we have caching is a hard problem.
Cache and validation is a hard problem.
Now you have questions like should
you have a timeout on your cache?
Should you say I will keep these in
my cache for this period of time.
But once a certain number of milliseconds,
or seconds, or minutes has elapsed.
You know what, it's probably stale,
you've probably left that tab open for
a long time.
Now we need to validate that cache and
say let's go do an HTTP request as
if we've loaded the page fresh.
So all of these things are options, and
they're worth considering based
on your particular use case.
What things do you want to load?
When do you want to load them?
What should the user be able
to see while they're loading?
And once you've loaded them, how do
you want to persist them across pages?
Do you want to persist them at all?
Do you want to go get
a fresh copy every time, or
do you want to save some
of the stuff in a cache?
If you're gonna save it in a cache,
do you wanna invalidate it?
If so, when, under what circumstances?
All of these things are tradeoffs worth
considering when building a single
page application.
So we talked about routes and
how they can go from URL to route,
we have that mapping.
We talked about pages, how we have, sorry,
routes can also go from the particular
route that you already have to the URL.
We talked about pages,
which is the notion of a particular
page that you're viewing in the browser.
Which is related to routes but
not on a one to one basis.
And also the page module holds on to
the view that is used on all the pages for
rendering the frame around each page.
As well as the extra logic for viewing
errors, which a lot of pages had to used.
Let's talk about loading and
persisting data about when we should go
to the server to get more information and
when we should come back and what we
should store in the cache, if anything.
If we do decide to store something,
how we should go about persisting that,
whether the cache should
expire under a certain policy.
And finally,
we talked about module structure,
like when to put things in a namespace.
The potential downsides of having
a namespace like data or request or
something that encourages putting
modules in a particular boundary.
Even when perhaps there's a better
boundary to be had by focusing on a type,
which tends to be
the better policy with Elm.
So far, the only namespace that I've
consistently found use for is page.